=== PAGE 1 ===
The ultimate guide to 
a net zero building

=== PAGE 2 ===
2
About this guide	
	
3
Apply the net zero cycle to your building	
	
	
4
Measure GHG emissions		
	
	
5
	 01. Collect activity data	 	
	
	
	
6-7
	 02. Calculate emissions		
	
	
8-9
	 03. Create an emissions inventory report	
	
10-11
Reduce GHG emissions	 	
	
	
	
13
	04. Compare buildings	 	
	
14-17
	05. Implement	
	
18-19
	06. Track emissions	
	
	
	
20
Offset remaining emissions	
	
	
	
21
	
07. Identify reputable carbon offset projects		
	
22
	
08. Purchase offsets	
	
	
	
23
	
09. Track offsets impacts	
	
	
24
	
10. Repeat & improve	 	
	
	
25
Last Word	
	
	
	
	
	
	
26
Frequently used terms	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
27
Table of contents

=== PAGE 3 ===
Declare your building’s net zero status by 
measuring, reducing, and offsetting its 
emissions with BrainBox AI
3
Welcome to BrainBox AI’s step-by-step 
handbook for achieving net zero building 
status – created by sustainability-minded 
professionals, for sustainability-minded 
professionals.
In this guide, we’ll introduce you to the Net Zero Cycle, walking you 
through the 10 steps you’ll need to take to bring your building 
portfolio to net zero. We’ll show you how to gather your building’s 
data, calculate and report its emissions, reduce its carbon footprint, 
track its reduction progress, and balance the remaining emissions 
with responsible offsetting.  
What’s more, we’ll showcase how our solutions are specifically 
tailored to support each phase of your process, lightening your load 
(and your footprint) on your journey to sustainability success.  
About this guide
FACT
Around 30% of the electricity US buildings use is 
generated from coal-burning power plants, which release 
the greenhouse gases (GHGs) that contribute to climate 
change.
Tips for reading this guide: 
Consider this guide your knowledgeable companion, 
a resource to draw on as you move towards your 
sustainability goals. As you read through it: 
1.	
Identify the steps you’ve already taken and 
those that remain. 
2.	 Reflect on the strategies that can be quickly 
implemented and identify the key team members 
to involve at each stage.
3.	 Plan the execution of your next few steps and 
start communicating your strategy to stakeholders 
for their support. 

=== PAGE 4 ===
4
Evaluate reduction 
potential
Determine offset 
needs
Apply the net zero cycle to your building
01 Collect 
We automatically gather and organize your 
building’s utility data, such as electricity use 
and natural gas consumption. 
02 Calculate 
In alignment with the GHG Protocol, we 
multiply each data point by the corresponding 
emissions factor to produce your building’s 
GHG emissions inventory data. 
03 Report
Your collected and calculated data is presented 
to you in an easy-to-understand, audit-grade 
scope 1 and 2 report designed to inform your 
stakeholders and drive your decarbonization 
initiatives. 
04 Compare
Our dashboard allows you to analyze your 
buildings’ energy use and carbon intensity, 
comparing each building against one another 
to pinpoint your largest potential reductions. 
05 Implement
Our AI-powered technology easily connects 
to your HVAC system (or EMS). Using both 
internal and external data (such as weather 
forecasts, occupancy rates, and more), it 
optimizes your building’s energy consumption. 
06 Track Emissions
Our dashboard allows you to track your energy-
related emissions reductions, enabling you to 
compare your consumption - both with and 
without our solution. 
07 Identify 
Our intuitive dashboard shows you the quantity 
of emissions you’ll need to offset to reach net 
zero building status. We also offer a curated 
list of offsetting projects aligned with your 
budget and values. 
08 Purchase 
Once you’ve selected your offsetting projects 
and approved the budget, you’ll have access to 
our secure platform from which to purchase 
your carbon offsets. 
09 Track Impact
We enable you to keep up to date with your 
building’s current footprint and emissions 
offset through our comprehensive, real-time 
dashboard. 
Measure 
Reduce
Offset

=== PAGE 5 ===
5
Measure GHG Emissions 
We know gathering and processing your building's energy data can be a 
mammoth task — especially if you have a portfolio of multiple buildings in 
multiple different regions — but doing this each year is vital to assess how 
far you’ve come and how much is still left to go. We cure the headache of 
sourcing, calculating, analysing and reporting your building’s energy data with 
automations. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
6
Collect activity data 
01
DIY
BrainBox AI
DIY
Collecting your building’s energy data manually 
involves more than you might think. You’ll need to: 
Identify your building’s activity data
Such as electricity usage or gas consumption, so that you 
have a complete list of all the activities contributing to your 
building’s carbon footprint. 
Access your billing platforms
Which includes obtaining the login credentials for your various 
utility providers' billing platforms.
Export and categorize your energy bills
Invoices by building and time period. Here, you’ll also need 
to figure out invoice structures and extract crucial data like 
consumption figures and tariff models. 
Compile all this data
Into a legible, navigable spreadsheet – and keep it up to date.
Data forms the basis of your GHG reduction strategy, 
so your first step is to gather your building’s energy 
data. You can do this either on your own or by hiring a 
third party to do the dirty work for you. 

=== PAGE 7 ===
7
Collect activity data 
01
DIY
BrainBox AI
Automated data collection
We autonomously collect, aggregate, and calculate your 
energy data, ensuring precision and eliminating manual effort.
Fewer mundane tasks
Our automated processes mean you can concentrate on 
developing and implementing more effective reduction 
strategies.
Comprehensive utility bill analysis
Our solution automatically analyzes your stationary emissions 
data from your utility bills, including electricity, natural gas, 
oil, and other fuels.
Integrated energy consumption tracking
We track your building’s energy consumption across different 
sources, providing a holistic view of your building’s energy 
usage.
Real-time data processing 
Our technology processes data in real-time, offering up-to-
date insights for more responsive decision-making.
With BrainBox AI
Our solution integrates algorithms and an automated 
API connection to your data sources, ensuring a 
precise and painless process with benefits such as: 
Your fugitive emissions
Emissions released as a result of leaks, 
spills, or evaporation of gases or liquids 
from equipment, pipelines, or storage tanks 
during equipment installation, operation, 
and disposal.
Your scope 1 & 2 data: All in one place 
Seeing your scope 1 & 2 data in one place gives 
you a more in-depth understanding of your 
organization’s GHG emissions. 
That’s why we’ve added the option to import your 
complementary scope 1 data such as:
Emissions generated by vehicles that are 
owned or controlled by your organization, 
including fleet vehicles, company cars, and 
other on-site transportation.
Your mobile emissions

=== PAGE 8 ===
8
Once your activity data is collected, the next step is to 
calculate your building’s carbon footprint. 
Calculate your emissions 
02
DIY
BrainBox AI
DIY
Calculating your emissions manually is easier said 
than done. It involves complex and time-consuming 
tasks, such as: 
Classifying your activity data into different emissions 
sources, such as electricity vs gas. 
Grouping your buildings by region in accordance with 
the GHG Protocol.
Finding and listing all the emissions factors for your 
region and calculation period.
Converting your energy data into CO2e by using up-to-
date, region-specific emission factors to convert your energy 
consumption data (from electricity, natural gas, heating oil, 
etc.) into equivalent carbon dioxide emissions (CO2e).
Summing up all your emissions sources to get your 
total building emissions.
Reviewing and validating your calculations for accuracy 
and, if possible, having them validated by a third party for 
credibility.
Reporting and documenting your findings, maintaining 
transparency in your calculation methods and data sources.

=== PAGE 9 ===
9
Calculate your emissions 
02
DIY
BrainBox AI
With BrainBox AI
Our platform automates the entire calculation 
process, providing you with: 
Automatic classifications of your building’s activity 
data into distinct emissions categories, reducing manual 
sorting and potential human error.
Advanced CO2e conversion using accurate, up-to-
date emission factors and conversion tools provided by 
recognized sources (such as the United States EPA’s 
GHG Emission Factors Database) and in line with the 
GHG Protocol.
Automated and accurate total emissions 
summations of your building’s emissions sources.
Transparent reporting and documentation of your 
building’s emissions, ensuring clarity in calculation 
methods and data sources for credibility and compliance.
Automatic calculations of your building’s energy 
intensity and carbon intensity.

=== PAGE 10 ===
10
After calculating your building’s emissions, it’s a good 
idea to create an in-depth account of what your building’s 
carbon footprint is made up of — otherwise known as 
an “emissions inventory report”. This indispensable 
document can provide insights into a building’s energy 
use patterns and areas for improvement and forms a 
handy benchmark for tracking year-over-year GHG 
reductions. What’s more, sharing your report will promote 
trust and transparency with your stakeholders. 
Create an emissions 
inventory report 
03
DIY
BrainBox AI
DIY
Generally, compiling an inventory report takes a 
considerable amount of time, involving: 
Meticulously organizing and inputting data
Structuring it into clear categories (such as emission type, 
source, or by individual building) for readability and 
understanding.
Manually creating charts and graphs 
To better visualize your emissions data.
Manually creating a comprehensible report 
That tracks your emissions reduction progress over time.
Consistently updating 
Your reports to reflect progress and changes and to maintain 
transparency.

=== PAGE 11 ===
11
Create an emissions 
inventory report 
03
DIY
BrainBox AI
With BrainBox AI
BrainBox AI makes your inventory report creation a 
breeze by: 
Automating data input from various sources, reducing 
the need for manual data entry and potential errors. 
Visualizing the classification of your emissions 
sources into the appropriate categories and scopes 
based on source and emission type, ensuring accurate 
reporting.1, 2
Export your emissions reports for your entire building 
portfolio, compiling and organizing all the necessary 
data, calculations, and analyses into a professional and 
comprehensive format.
Analyzing trends and patterns across your building 
portfolio or in individual buildings, facilitating accuracy 
and transparency and helping you develop an effective 
emissions reduction action plan.
Analyzing trends and patterns across your building 
portfolio or in individual buildings, facilitating accuracy 
and transparency and helping you develop an effective 
emissions reduction action plan.

=== PAGE 12 ===
12
We can also narrow the scope of your report to buildings in specific regions 
or even individual buildings, giving you the option of high-level overviews or 
granular, blow-by-blow-visibility. 
2
1

=== PAGE 13 ===
13
Reduce GHG emissions
Cutting your building’s emissions takes consistent effort, but it comes with a 
host of benefits, including happier occupants, more satisfied shareholders, and 
increased value. Fortunately, there are a host of decarbonization strategies to 
choose from – and they don’t have to be costly to be effective. 
For example, adding an AI solution that optimizes your HVAC systems may 
require little to no CapEx and is compatible with existing infrastructure, meaning 
no expensive retrofits and no money down. In fact, a solution like BrainBox AI 
can end up saving you on energy bills and maintenance costs thanks to significant 
energy consumption reduction and reduced equipment runtime. 

=== PAGE 14 ===
14
Comparing how your building’ stacks up against others 
when it comes to energy consumption and emissions 
provides crucial insights for making informed decisions. 
This lets you focus your efforts where they matter most, 
leading to reduced energy consumption, lower emissions, 
and a more sustainable and cost-effective building 
portfolio. 
Compare buildings
04
DIY
BrainBox AI
DIY
Comparing buildings manually is a feat, but it’s not 
impossible. To do so, you’ll need to: 
Normalize your data
Adjusting the energy consumption and emissions data for 
the size of each building, using a common metric like energy 
use per square foot.
Consider building use and occupancy
Factoring in differences in building use types (office, retail, 
industrial, etc.) and occupancy levels, which can significantly 
affect energy consumption and emissions.
Compare energy intensity
Evaluating the energy use per unit area of each building to 
identify which buildings are more energy efficient.
Assess each building’s carbon intensity 
Looking at the emissions per unit area to understand the true 
environmental impact of each building.
Benchmark your building 
Comparing its energy consumption and emissions with 
industry standards or similar buildings to gauge its 
performance.
Use historical data for comparison
Assessing changes in your building’s energy consumption 
and emissions over time.

=== PAGE 15 ===
15
Compare buildings
04
DIY
BrainBox AI
With BrainBox AI
We’ve developed an interactive platform that gives you 
access to a comprehensive comparative analysis of each 
building in your portfolio. This feature has a multitude of 
benefits, including: 
The prioritization of decarbonization projects 
By comparing energy usage across your portfolio, enabling 
you to identify the best performers and those in need of 
improvement.
The prioritization of decarbonization projects 
By comparing energy usage across your portfolio, enabling 
you to identify the best performers and those in need of 
improvement.
The ability to fully visualize your data 
From a high-level overview by region or time-period to a 
granular blow-by-blow of each bit of your building’s 
equipment.

=== PAGE 16 ===
16
What’s more, our platform gives you the flexibility to manipulate your 
data, enabling you to: 
Easily identify your most energy-intensive buildings 
throughout your entire property portfolio. 
Correlate your most energy-intensive and 
carbon-intensive buildings to prioritize the 
locations that need more love. 

=== PAGE 17 ===
17
A comprehensive ranking of all your assets based on costs incurred by 
inefficient HVAC equipment. 

=== PAGE 18 ===
18
05
What it does:
Our autonomous AI continuously makes precise micro-adjustments 
to your HVAC system, ensuring it always operates at peak efficiency, 
reducing its energy consumption by up to 25%.
How it works:
We enhance your building's internal data with external data, such as 
utility tariff structures, weather predictions, occupant levels, and grid 
emission rates, to accurately predict your future indoor temperature 
patterns.
Once you’ve identified which buildings to prioritize, you can begin 
reducing their energy consumption with our autonomous AI for 
HVAC optimization. Implementing our solution is quick and painless 
and can be done remotely or on-site. 
Implement
Weather predictions
Grid emission rates
Utility tariff structures
Occupant level

=== PAGE 19 ===
Implement
05
How to connect:
We provide four modes of connectivity:
Cloud connected 
Wi-Fi thermostats 
Niagara Novar Driver
Cloud to Envoy server
BACnet Gateway 
-40%
Up to 40% decrease in carbon footprint
Carbon emissions
-25%
Up to 25% reduction in total energy costs
Energy costs
Our solution is 
delivering concrete, 
measurable results for 
our clients 

=== PAGE 20 ===
20
Continuously monitoring the progress and effectiveness of your 
building’s emissions reductions can go a long way to ensuring 
you’re still on track to meet your targets. Additionally, it helps you 
understand the speed at which you're making progress, 
communicate the results of your efforts with confidence, and track 
your ROI. 
Track Emissions
06
That’s why we’ve implemented an easy-to-understand virtual 
metering tool that provides you with a solid baseline against which 
to measure your reduction efforts. It also lets you closely monitor 
your daily consumption and savings , providing you with a clear 
view of exactly how much our solution has saved you over a period 
of days, months, and years.
Once you've lowered your carbon footprint, BrainBox AI automatically 
calculates your total portfolio emissons to tell you exactly how 
much you need to offset.

=== PAGE 21 ===
21
Offsetting involves purchasing carbon offset credits to support sustainability 
projects like tree planting or wetland conservation, but it can also raise concerns 
of security and credibility. That’s why it's important for us to ensure trust through 
our secure dashboard filled with expert-verified carbon offset projects. 
Note: while offsetting aids in balancing emissions, our goal is to emphasize reductions over 
offsets to maintain your net zero building status. 
Offset Remaining Emissions

=== PAGE 22 ===
22
Before investing in any initiatives, you'll need to ensure that the 
ones you choose are managed by reputable organizations that 
produce actual, meaningful environmental benefits. We help you 
do this by providing the widest selection of high-quality projects 
across five continents and offering over 15 project types to suit 
your business values and budget. What’s more, the projects we 
recommend are:
Identify reputable 
carbon offset 
projects 
07
Verified
Each offsetting project we showcase is certified by a recognized 
third-party organization such as Verified Carbon Standard (VCS), 
the Climate Action Reserve (CAR), Puro Earth, the American Carbon 
Registry (ACR), and the Gold Standard. 
Diverse
Choose from an industry-leading library of over 7500 projects from 
all over the world. From blue carbon to carbon capture, we help 
ensure you have a diverse offsetting portfolio that’s current, effective, 
and filled with reputable projects. 
Rated
We ensure that the offset projects we feature have been rated by a 
reputable, independent credit rating firms like Sylvera Ltd., BeZero 
Carbon, and Calyx Global. These firms help to assess whether a car­
bon project is legitimate and delivers on its claims. 

=== PAGE 23 ===
23
The price of carbon offsets can vary significantly, ranging from as 
low as $1 per tonne of CO2e to over $100 per tCO2e. This wide 
price range makes it difficult to know exactly how much you should 
be paying for an offset - or whether the project is even secure, 
reliable, and legitimate. 
We recognize these issues, ensuring that the offset projects we 
feature have been rated by third party credit rating firms to ensure 
the validity of a carbon project and its promises. 
These firms also provide us with information about 
the carbon credit market, including pricing and 
supply and demand trends - all of which help us 
stay on top of market dynamics, offset project 
cost, and value delivered. We also offer a secure and 
comprehensive offsetting approach, employing a 
rigorous five-module risk assessment process 
conducted by highly qualified climate scientists to 
evaluate the quality and safety of the carbon offset 
programs we showcase. We take into account 
internal elements, registry, project methodology, project-specific 
risks, and external factors such as third-party assessments, insurance, 
and political risks. 
Additionally, we provide real-time project availability and pricing 
information, along with comprehensive data and educational pointers, 
allowing for informed decision-making. Lastly, our streamlined 
payment process makes investing in offsets straightforward and 
efficient. 
Purchase offsets
08
With us, you can confidently invest in 
carbon offsets knowing that the risk 
assessment, project selection, and 
management are all conducted with 
the utmost care and expertise, making 
it a secure choice for environmentally 
conscious investors. 

=== PAGE 24 ===
24
Tracking your offset’s environmental and societal impact will 
determine whether you want to renew your investments or re-invest 
in something else. 
BrainBox AI enables you to keep up to date with your current 
footprint and emissions offsets through a comprehensive, real-time 
dashboard. This not only helps you make more informed investment 
decisions, but it also encourages stakeholder transparency and 
facilitates your active participation in the carbon market. 
Track offset 
impacts
09

=== PAGE 25 ===
25
LED lighting
renewables
boiler upgrade
Your portfolio is ever evolving, so it makes sense that emissions 
reduction is a never-ending process. As new floors, rooms, offices, 
and features are added and new technologies are deployed, your 
building’s carbon footprint will evolve. 
That’s why it’s important to consistently re-measure, re-calculate, 
and re-assess its emissions and reduction efforts, evaluating them 
regularly to ensure they’re still in line with your goals. By adding 
AI to your building, you’ll be investing in a tremendously scalable 
solution that not only reduces emissions in your individual buildings, 
but across your entire portfolio – fully maximizing the impact of 
your contribution to the fight against climate change. 
To reach net zero, you’ll need to implement multiple emissions 
reduction strategies and technologies to effectively address every 
facet of your building’s emissions. With this in mind, it’s a good 
idea to research, evaluate, and implement supplementary energy-
efficient technologies, repeating steps four (compare), five 
(implement), and six (track emissions) of the net zero cycle until 
you’re no longer reliant on offsets. 
Not sure which reduction strategies to go for next? Evaluate and prioritize 
potential decarbonization solutions with our no-nonsense Decarbonization 
Matchmaker tool. Download it here.
Improve
Repeat
10
Some other emissions reduction solutions include: 

=== PAGE 26 ===
26
Last word
Get started by assessing your building's reduction 
potential with our free energy efficiency report.
Request your custom report now
There’s a lot to achieving net zero in your 
building. There’s even more to keeping it 
there. That’s why at BrainBox AI we’ve 
developed a unique, all-in-one solution that 
forms the perfect foundation upon which to 
layer additional emissions reduction solutions 
down the road. 
What’s more, we make the entire net zero process as painless as possible, 
significantly reducing your building’s emissions and providing you with 
practical resources, tools, and guidance every step of the way. 
Start your building's journey to net zero with BrainBox AI

=== PAGE 27 ===
27
Frequently used terms 
When it comes to climate issues, there’s a lot of terminology 
tossed around. To help clarify those used in this guide, 
we’ve put together a simple, no-frills glossary. 
Building GHG inventory report
A GHG inventory report is a document that 
tracks and summarizes all the greenhouse gases 
your building emits and where they come from. 
For example, electricity use produces CO2 and 
HVAC systems often emit gases like Carbon 
Dioxide (CO2), Methane (CH4), Nitrous Oxide 
(N2O), and Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs).
The purpose of a GHG inventory report for your 
building is to understand and monitor its impact 
on the environment. It also helps identify areas 
where emissions can be reduced and provides 
a baseline for setting emission reduction goals. 
Want to know exactly what to include in your 
GHG emissions inventory report? Download our 
super simple inventory report cheat sheet.
Carbon footprint
A carbon footprint is essentially the measure 
of how much a person or company is contrib­
uting to climate change via their emissions, 
particularly their carbon dioxide emissions. 
Carbon footprints are measured in units of 
carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) and are cal­
culated by adding up all the CO2 released into 
the atmosphere as a result of activities such 
as transport, electricity use, manufacturing, 
packaging, and waste disposal. The goal is to 
reduce our carbon footprint as much as pos­
sible to help slow climate change.
Carbon Intensity
Carbon intensity is the measurement of the 
amount of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) 
emitted per square foot of real estate per year.
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions
Greenhouse gases (or GHGs) are gases that 
trap heat in the Earth’s atmosphere and con­
tribute to the greenhouse effect, which causes 
global warming land climate change. Like a 
greenhouse, the sun shines through our atmos­
phere, warming the earth. At night, the earth’s 
surface cools, releasing heat back into the air. 
Greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide 
(CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), 
and fluorinated gases like hydrofluorocarbons 
(HFCs) (caused by human activities such as 
burning fossil fuels and deforestation) then 
trap this heat in the atmosphere.
Net zero
Net zero refers to the balance between how 
much greenhouse gas (GHG) is produced and 
how much is removed from the atmosphere. 
When we achieve a balance (where the amount 
we add is no more than the amount taken away), 
then we can say we’ve reached net zero. 
According to the SBTi, net zero targets must 
align to a 1.5°C science-based target and their 
boundaries must include all three scopes.
Net zero building
A net zero building is an energy-efficient struc­
ture that uses less energy than a standard 
building - and may even return excess energy 
to the grid. 
Net zero building cycle
The journey to a net zero building is a continu­
ous loop of emissions measurement, reduction, 
and offsetting. At BrainBox AI, we refer to this 
as the "net zero building cycle" 
Offsetting
Carbon offsetting is a way to compensate for 
the GHG emissions that an organization or 
individual could not reduce by investing in 
projects or activities that reduce or remove 
the equivalent amount of emissions through 
things like renewable energy, carbon capture 
and storage (CCS), or reforestation. 
Offsetting should be undertaken only after 
every effort has been taken to reduce emis­
sions. To avoid accusations of greenwashing, 
companies need to consider how, and how 
much, they rely on carbon offsets to achieve 
their net zero goals. 
